Various edits/clarifications for transport security doc. (#553)
vitessio/website: content/en/docs/reference/features/transport-security-model.md

aliases: ['/docs/user-guides/transport-security-model/','/docs/reference/transport-security-model/']
---

> Vitess exposes a few gRPC services, and internally also uses RPCs. These RPCs

Reviewer: I don't think we need the comma before and here.

Vitess exposes a few RPC services and internally uses RPCs.

> may optionally use secure transport options to use TLS over the gRPC HTTP/2

Reviewer: These RPCs can optionally utilize secure transport options to use TLS over the gRPC ...

transport protocol. This document explains how to use these features. Finally,

> we briefly cover how to secure the MySQL protocol transport to VTGate as well.

Reviewer: No need for 'as well.'

Finally, we briefly cover how to secure the MySQL protocol transport to VTGate.

## Overview

The following diagram represents all the RPCs we use in a Vitess cluster via
gRPC:

![Vitess Transport Security Model Diagram](../../img/vitesstransportsecuritymodel.svg)

There are two main categories:

> * Internal RPCs: they are used to connect Vitess components.

Reviewer: They are used to connect Vitess components.

> * Externally visible RPCs: they are use by the app to talk to Vitess. Note that

Reviewer: They are used by the app

>   not all Vitess users would use this gRPC interface, and rather use the MySQL

Reviewer: Note that not it is not necessary to use this gRPC interface. It is still possible to instead use the MySQL protocol to VTGate, which is not covered in this document.

  protocol to VTGate, which we do not cover in this document.

A few features in the Vitess ecosystem depend on authentication, like Caller ID

> and table ACLs. We'll explore the Caller ID feature first.

Reviewer: A few features in the Vitess ecosystem depend on authentication including: Caller ID
and table ACLs.

## Caller ID

Caller ID is a feature provided by the Vitess stack to identify the source
of queries. There are two different Caller IDs:

* Immediate Caller ID: It represents the secure client identity when it
  enters the Vitess side:

>   - It is a single string, represents the user connecting to Vitess (vtgate).

Reviewer: It is a single string representing the user connecting to Vitess (VTGate).

  - It is authenticated by the transport layer used.
  - It is can be used by the Vitess TableACL feature.

> * Effective Caller ID: It provides detailed information on who the individual

Reviewer: It provides detailed information on the individual caller process:

  caller process is:
  - It contains more information about the caller: principal, component,
    sub-component.
  - It is provided by the application layer.
  - It is not authenticated.
  - It is exposed in query logs to be able to debug the source of a slow query,

>     for instance.

Reviewer: It is exposed in query logs. Enabling it to be used to debug issues like the source of a slow query.

## gRPC Transport

### gRPC Encrypted Transport

When using gRPC transport, Vitess can use the usual TLS security features
(familiarity with TLS is necessary here):

* Any Vitess server can be configured to use TLS with the following command line parameters:
  - `grpc_cert`, `grpc_key`: server cert and key to use.
  - `grpc_ca` (optional): client cert chains to trust. If specified, the client
    must then use a certificate signed by one of the CA certs in the provided
    file.
* A Vitess go client can be configured with symmetrical parameters to enable
  TLS:

>   - `xxxx_grpc_ca`: list of server cert signers to trust, i.e. the client will

Reviewer: list of server cert signers to trust. I.E. the client will

    only connect to servers presenting a cert signed by one of the CAs in this
    file.

>   - `xxxx_grpc_server_name`: common name of the server cert to trust, instead

Reviewer: common name of the server cert to trust. Instead of the hostname used to connect or IP SAN if using an IP to connect.

    of the hostname used to connect, or IP SAN if using an IP to connect.

>   - `xxxx_grpc_cert`, `xxxx_grpc_key`: client side cert and key to use (when

Reviewer: client side cert and key to use in cases when the server requires client authentication.

    the server requires client authentication)

> * Other clients can take similar parameters, in various ways, see each client's

Reviewer: Other clients can take similar parameters, in various ways. Please view each client's parameters for more information.

  parameters for more information.

With these options, it is possible to use TLS-secured connections for all parts
of the gRPC system. This enables the server side to authenticate the client,
and/or the client to authenticate the server.

Note this is not enabled by default, as usually the different Vitess servers

> will run on a private network (in a Cloud environment, usually all local

Reviewer: will run on a private network. It is also important to note, that in a Cloud environment, for example, usually all local traffic is already secured over between VMs.

traffic is already secured over between VMs, for instance).

### Certificates and Caller ID

> Additionally, if a client uses a certificate to connect to Vitess (vtgate)

Reviewer: Should this be VTGate?

via gRPC, the common name of that certificate is passed to vttablet as the
Immediate Caller ID. It can then be used by table ACLs, to grant read, write
or admin access to individual tables. This should be used if different clients
should have different access to Vitess tables.

### Caller ID Override

In a private network, where TLS security is not required, it might still be
desirable to use table ACLs as a safety mechanism to prevent a user from
accessing sensitive data. The gRPC connector provides the `grpc_use_effective_callerid`
flag for this purpose: if specified when running vtgate, the Effective Caller
ID's principal is copied into the Immediate Caller ID, and then used throughout
the Vitess stack.

> **Important**: this is not secure. Any user code can provide any value for

Reviewer: This is not secure.

the Effective Caller ID's principal, and therefore access any data. This
is intended as a safety feature to make sure some applications do not
misbehave. Therefore, this flag is not enabled by default.

### Example
For a concrete example, see
[encrypted_transport_test.go](https://github.com/vitessio/vitess/blob/master/go/test/endtoend/encryption/encryptedtransport/encrypted_transport_test.go)

> in the source tree. It first sets up all the certificates, and some table ACLs,

Reviewer: It first sets up all the certificates, some table ACLs, and then uses the golang client to connect with TLS.

then uses the golang client to connect with TLS. It also exercises the
`grpc_use_effective_callerid` flag, by connecting without TLS.

## MySQL Transport to VTGate

To get VTGate to support TLS use the `-mysql_server_ssl_cert` and
`-mysql_server_ssl_key` VTGate options. To require client certificates,
you can set `-mysql_server_ssl_ca`, containing the CA certificate

> you expect the client TLS certificates to be verify against.

Reviewer: you expect the client TLS certificates to be verified against.

aliases: ['/docs/user-guides/transport-security-model/','/docs/reference/transport-security-model/']
---

Vitess exposes a few RPC services and internally uses RPCs. These RPCs can optionally utilize secure transport options to use TLS over the gRPC HTTP/2 transport protocol. This document explains how to use these features. Finally, we briefly cover how to secure the MySQL protocol transport to VTGate.

## Overview

The following diagram represents all the RPCs we use in a Vitess cluster via gRPC:

![Vitess Transport Security Model Diagram](../../img/vitesstransportsecuritymodel.svg)

There are two main categories:

* Internal RPCs: They are used to connect Vitess components.

> * Externally visible RPCs: They are used by the app to talk to Vitess. Note that not it is not necessary to use this gRPC interface. It is still possible to instead use the MySQL protocol to VTGate, which is not covered in this document.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Externally visible RPCs: They are used by the app to talk to Vitess. Note that it is not necessary to use this gRPC interface. It is still possible to instead use the MySQL protocol to VTGate, which is not covered in this document.
```

> A few features in the Vitess ecosystem depend on authentication including: Caller ID and table ACLs.

Reviewer 2: nit: colon can be removed.

## Caller ID

Caller ID is a feature provided by the Vitess stack to identify the source of queries. There are two different Caller IDs:

* Immediate Caller ID: It represents the secure client identity when it enters the Vitess side:
  - It is a single string representing the user connecting to Vitess (VTGate).
  - It is authenticated by the transport layer used.

>   - It is can be used by the Vitess TableACL feature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - It can be used by the Vitess TableACL feature.
```

* Effective Caller ID: It provides detailed information on the individual caller process:

>   - It contains more information about the caller: principal, component, or sub-component.

Reviewer 2: is that or OR and?

  - It is provided by the application layer.
  - It is not authenticated.

>   - It is exposed in query logs. Enabling it to be used to debug issues like the source of a slow query.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - It is exposed in query logs. Enabling it can be useful for debugging issues like the source of a slow query.
```

## gRPC Transport

### gRPC Encrypted Transport

When using gRPC transport, Vitess can use the usual TLS security features. Please note that familiarity with TLS is necessary here:

* Any Vitess server can be configured to use TLS with the following command line parameters:
  - `grpc_cert`, `grpc_key`: server cert and key to use.
  - `grpc_ca` (optional): client cert chains to trust. If specified, the client must then use a certificate signed by one of the CA certs in the provided file.
* A Vitess go client can be configured with symmetrical parameters to enable
  TLS:

>   - `xxxx_grpc_ca`: list of server cert signers to trust. I.E. the client will only connect to servers presenting a cert signed by one of the CAs in this file.

Reviewer 2: can you list the possible values for `xxxx`?

Reviewer: @aquarapid - I'd need the values for xxxx to resolve this comment. Thanks!

  - `xxxx_grpc_server_name`: common name of the server cert to trust. Instead of the hostname used to connect or IP SAN if using an IP to connect.
  - `xxxx_grpc_cert`, `xxxx_grpc_key`: client side cert and key to use in cases when the server requires client authentication.
* Other clients can take similar parameters, in various ways. Please view each client's parameters for more information.

With these options, it is possible to use TLS-secured connections for all parts of the gRPC system. This enables the server side to authenticate the client, and/or the client to authenticate the server.

This is not enabled by default, as usually the different Vitess servers will run on a private network. It is also important to note, that in a Cloud environment, for example, usually all local traffic is already secured between VMs.

### Certificates and Caller ID

> Additionally, if a client uses a certificate to connect to Vitess (VTGate) via gRPC, the common name of that certificate is passed to vttablet as the Immediate Caller ID. It can then be used by table ACLs, to grant read, write or admin access to individual tables. This should be used if different clients should have different access to Vitess tables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, if a client uses a certificate to connect to Vitess (VTGate) via gRPC, the common name of that certificate is passed to vttablet as the Immediate Caller ID. It can then be used by table ACLs to grant read, write or admin access to individual tables. This should be used if different clients should have different access to Vitess tables.
```
